[1] Analysing COVID-19 Outbreaks Through Deterministic and Stochastic Agent-Based Models with Public Perception
Al-Abri, Fahad Awadh, Mohd, Mohd Hafiz - Brazilian Journal of Physics - 2025
This study compares the newly developed stochastic agent-based model (ABM) and deterministic system within the context of COVID-19 transmission dynamics, using the Susceptible-Exposed-Infectious-Removed-Perception (SEIRP) compartments. The primary aim is to analyse the similarities and differences between these modelling approaches, providing insights into the emergent behaviours of the epidemiological systems. We also investigate how social phenomena like public perception affect the two epidemiological models' outcomes, focusing on scenarios with varying awareness levels and proportions of severe cases. Our results show that while deterministic model outputs align well with the ABM for large populations, discrepancies emerge for small populations in the ABM due to the impacts of stochastic extinction and discreteness of individuals. In scenarios with high proportions of severe cases and for large population sizes, the deterministic model exhibits oscillatory behaviour. In this situation, the averaged ABM densities initially capture the fluctuation dynamics when a substantial number of realisations is used in simulation; however, this stochastic system exhibits diminishing fluctuations across different realisations, contributing to a consistent average akin to an endemic steady state over a longer period. Interestingly, as the number of realisations is reduced, the agreement between stochastic and deterministic systems in depicting recurrent outbreaks is evident (i.e., realisations-dependent dynamical behaviour). In the next case study, the joint effect of recovery, latency period, disease severity and public perception is explored, highlighting how different factors can combine to influence the systems' outcomes. Notably, our case study finds that even when the deterministic model demonstrates the persistence of sustained oscillations, the ABM can depict an extinction state; this stochastic ABM observation is caused by the realisations in this epidemiological system fluctuating to a very low population density and being excluded over a long run. Overall, our findings suggest the importance of considering both deterministic and stochastic models in infectious disease modelling, highlighting the need for comprehensive analyses to guide evidence-based decision-making in public health and epidemiology.
[2] Counting the uncounted : estimating the unaccounted COVID-19 infections in India
Saikia, Debashis, Bora, Kalpana, Bora, Madhurjya P. - Nonlinear Dynamics - 2024
Undetected infectious populations have played a major role in the COVID-19 outbreak across the globe and estimation of this undetected class is a major concern in understanding the actual size of the COVID-19 infections. Due to the asymptomatic nature of some infections, many cases have gone undetected. Also, despite carrying COVID-19 symptoms, most of the infected population kept the infections hidden and stayed unreported, especially in a country like India. Based on these factors, we have added an undetected compartment to the already developed SEIR model [48] to estimate these uncounted infections. In this article, we have applied Physics Informed Neural Network (PINN) to estimate the undetected infectious populations in the 20 worst-affected Indian states as well as India as a whole. The analysis has been carried out for the first as well as second surge of COVID-19 infections in India. A ratio of the active undetected infectious to the active detected infectious population is calculated through the PINN analysis which gives a picture of the real size of the pandemic in India. The rate at which symptomatic infectious population goes undetected and are never reported is also estimated using the PINN method. Toward the end, an artificial neural network (ANN) based forecasting scenario of the pandemic in India is presented. The prediction is found to be reliable as the training of the neural network has been carried out using the unique features, obtained from the state-wide analysis of the newly proposed model as well as from the PINN analysis.
[3] Assessing the impact of architectural and behavioral interventions for controlling indoor COVID-19 infection risk: An agent-based approach
Anxiao Zhang, Qi Zhen, Chi Zheng, Jing Li, ...Yue Zheng - Journal of Building Engineering - 2023
An agent-based model integrating building, behavior, and virus was proposed.The social force model and a simple-forcing indoor airflow model were coupled.Wearing a mask is the most effective single intervention in the supermarket.
[4] Spatiotemporal transmission of infectious particles in environment: A case study of Covid-19
Hamed Karimian, Qin Fan, Qun LiYouliang ChenJuan Shi - Chemosphere - 2023
This study explores the dynamic transmission of infectious particles due to COVID-19 in the environment using a spatiotemporal epidemiological approach. We proposed a novel multi-agent model to simulate the spread of COVID-19 by considering several influencing factors. The model divides the population into susceptible and infected and analyzes the impact of different prevention and control measures, such as limiting the number of people and wearing masks on the spread of COVID-19. The findings suggest that reducing population density and wearing masks can significantly reduce the likelihood of virus transmission. Specifically, the research shows that if the population moves within a fixed range, almost everyone will eventually be infected within 1 h. When the population density is 50%, the infection rate is as high as 96%. If everyone does not wear a mask, nearly 72.33% of the people will be infected after 1 h. However, when people wear masks, the infection rate is consistently lower than when they do not wear masks. Even if only 25% of people wear masks, the infection rate with masks is 27.67% lower than without masks, which is strong evidence of the importance of wearing a mask. As people's daily activities are mostly carried out indoors, and many super-spreading events of the new crown epidemic also originated from indoor gatherings, the research on indoor epidemic prevention and control is essential. This study provides decision-making support for epidemic preventions and controls and the proposed methodology can be used in other regions and future epidemics.
[5] Agent-based epidemiological modeling of COVID-19 in localized environments
P.Ciunkiewicz, W.Brooke, M.Rogers, S.Yanushkevich, ... - Computers in biology and medicine - 2022
Epidemiological modeling is used, under certain assumptions, to represent the spread of a disease within a population. Information generated by these models can then be applied to inform public health practices and mitigate risk. To provide useful and actionable preparedness information to administrators and policy makers, epidemiological models must be formulated to model highly localized environments such as office buildings, campuses, or long-term care facilities. In this paper, a highly configurable agent-based simulation (ABS) framework designed for localized environments is proposed. This ABS provides information about risk and the effects of both pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions, as well as detailed control over the rapidly evolving epidemiological characteristics of COVID-19. Simulation results can inform decisions made by facility administrators and be used as inputs for a complementary decision support system. The application of our ABS to our research lab environment as a proof of concept demonstrates the configurability and insights achievable with this form of modeling, with future work focused on extensibility and integration with decision support.
[6] 基于综合集成预测方法的新冠肺炎疫情预测
白云[1,2];钱箴[1,2];孙玉莹[1,2,3];汪寿阳[1,2,3] - 系统工程理论与实践 - 2022
自2019年12月以来,新冠肺炎(COVID-19)疫情在全球范围内持续扩散,不仅严重危害到世界各国人民的生命健康,对公共医疗卫生体系提出严苛考验,还对经济贸易活动造成了巨大冲击,对国际社会产生了深远影响.一些研究采用数学预测模型对病毒传播和疫情发展进行模拟仿真,以帮助研究人员和政策制定者了解病毒传播机理,采取合理防疫政策进而抑制病毒进一步传播.然而现有研究存在一定局限性,例如方法选择单一,过于依赖模型参数选择,病毒传播与政策调整导致的数据时变性等问题.为解决上述问题,本文提出了基于时变模型平均(TVJMA),时变参数模型(TVP),传染病vSIR模型(vSIR),逻辑回归模型(LR),多项式回归模型(PNR),自回归移动平均(ARMA)六种模型方法的综合集成预测框架,对不同地区疫情最为严重的6个国家的累计确诊人数进行预测.结果表明,对于单一预测方法,TVJMA方法表现优于其他五种方法;综合集成预测方法在绝大多数情况下明显优于单一方法,特别是基于误差修正权重的多模型组合预测方法,显著地提高了预测精度.对于不同预测步长,综合集成预测方法具有稳健性.
[7] Effect of public health interventions during the first epidemic wave of COVID-19 in Cyprus: a modelling study
Gountas, Ilias, Quattrocchi, Annalisa, Mamais, Ioannis, Tsioutis, Constantinos, ...Christaki, Eirini - BMC Public Health - 2021
Cyprus addressed the first wave of SARS CoV-2 (COVID-19) by implementing non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs). The aims of this study were: a) to estimate epidemiological parameters of this wave including infection attack ratio, infection fatality ratio, and case ascertainment ratio, b) to assess the impact of public health interventions and examine what would have happened if those interventions had not been implemented.A dynamic, stochastic, individual-based Susceptible-Exposed-Infected-Recovered (SEIR) model was developed to simulate COVID-19 transmission and progression in the population of the Republic of Cyprus. The model was fitted to the observed trends in COVID-19 deaths and intensive care unit (ICU) bed use.By May 8th, 2020, the infection attack ratio was 0.31% (95% Credible Interval [CrI]: 0.15, 0.54%), the infection fatality ratio was 0.71% (95% CrI: 0.44, 1.61%), and the case ascertainment ratio was 33.2% (95% CrI: 19.7, 68.7%). If Cyprus had not implemented any public health measure, the healthcare system would have been overwhelmed by April 14th. The interventions averted 715 (95% CrI: 339, 1235) deaths. If Cyprus had only increased ICU beds, without any social distancing measure, the healthcare system would have been overwhelmed by April 19th.The decision of the Cypriot authorities to launch early NPIs limited the burden of the first wave of COVID-19. The findings of these analyses could help address the next waves of COVID-19 in Cyprus and other similar settings.
[8] Preliminary prediction of the basic reproduction number of the Wuhan novel coronavirus 2019‐nCoV
Tao Zhou, Quanhui Liu, Zimo Yang, Jingyi Liao, ...Kexin Yang - Journal of Evidence‐Based Medicine - 2020
Objectives: To estimate the basic reproduction number of the Wuhan novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). Methods: Based on the susceptible-exposed-infected-removed (SEIR) compartment model and the assumption that the infectious cases with symptoms occurred before 26 January, 2020 are resulted from free propagation without intervention, we estimate the basic reproduction number of 2019-nCoV according to the reported confirmed cases and suspected cases, as well as the theoretical estimated number of infected cases by other research teams, together with some epidemiological determinants learned from the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). Results: The basic reproduction number fall between 2.8 and 3.3 by using the real-time reports on the number of 2019-nCoV-infected cases from People's Daily in China and fall between 3.2 and 3.9 on the basis of the predicted number of infected cases from international colleagues. Conclusions: The early transmission ability of 2019-nCoV is close to or slightly higher than SARS. It is a controllable disease with moderate to high transmissibility. Timely and effective control measures are needed to prevent the further transmissions.
[9] Covid-19 Outbreak Progression in Italian Regions: Approaching the Peak by the End of March in Northern Italy and First Week of April in Southern Italy
Cosimo Distante, Prisco Piscitelli, Alessandro Miani - International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health - 2020
Epidemiological figures of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic in Italy are higher than those observed in China. Our objective was to model the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak progression in Italian regions vs. Lombardy to assess the epidemic's progression. Our setting was Italy, and especially Lombardy, which is experiencing a heavy burden of SARS-CoV-2 infections. The peak of new daily cases of the epidemic has been reached on the 29th, while was delayed in Central and Southern Italian regions compared to Northern ones. In our models, we estimated the basic reproduction number (R ), which represents the average number of people that can be infected by a person who has already acquired the infection, both by fitting the exponential growth rate of the infection across a 1-month period and also by using day-by-day assessments based on single observations. We used the susceptible–exposed–infected–removed (SEIR) compartment model to predict the spreading of the pandemic in Italy. The two methods provide an agreement of values, although the first method based on exponential fit should provide a better estimation, being computed on the entire time series. Taking into account the growth rate of the infection across a 1-month period, each infected person in Lombardy has involved 4 other people (3.6 based on data of April 23rd) compared to a value of , as reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan. According to our model, Piedmont, Veneto, Emilia Romagna, Tuscany and Marche will reach an R value of up to 3.5. The R was 3.11 for Lazio and 3.14 for the Campania region, where the latter showed the highest value among the Southern Italian regions, followed by Apulia (3.11), Sicily (2.99), Abruzzo (3.0), Calabria (2.84), Basilicata (2.66), and Molise (2.6). The R value is decreased in Lombardy and the Northern regions, while it is increased in Central and Southern regions. The expected peak of the SEIR model is set at the end of March, at a national level, with Southern Italian regions reaching the peak in the first days of April. Regarding the strengths and limitations of this study, our model is based on assumptions that might not exactly correspond to the evolution of the epidemic. What we know about the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic is based on Chinese data that seems to be different than those from Italy; Lombardy is experiencing an evolution of the epidemic that seems unique inside Italy and Europe, probably due to demographic and environmental factors.
[10] Stability Analysis and Numerical Simulation of SEIR Model for pandemic COVID-19 spread in Indonesia
Suwardi Annas, Muh. Isbar Pratama, Muh. Rifandi, Wahidah Sanusi, ...Syafruddin Side - Chaos Solitons & Fractals - 2020
The Aim of this research is construct the SEIR model for COVID-19, Stability Analysis and numerical simulation of the SEIR model on the spread of COVID-19. The method used to construct the model is the SEIR model by considering vaccination and isolation factors as model parameters, the analysis of the model uses the generation matrix method to obtain the basic reproduction numbers and the global stability of the COVID-19 distribution model. Numerical simulation models use secondary data on the number of COVID-19 cases in Indonesia. The results obtained are the SEIR model for COVID-19; model analysis yields global stability from the spread of COVID-19; The results of the analysis also provide information if no vaccine, Indonesia is endemic COVID-19. Then the simulation results provide a prediction picture of the number of COVID-19 in Indonesia in the following days, the simulation results also show that the vaccine can accelerate COVID-19 healing and maximum isolation can slow the spread of COVID-19. The results obtained can be used as a reference for early prevention of the spread of COVID-19 in Indonesia
[11] An Improved Method of COVID-19 Case Fitting and Prediction Based on LSTM
Bingjie Yan, Xiangyan Tang, Boyi Liu, Jun Wang, ...Wenxuan Tu - 2020
New coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has constituted a global pandemic and has spread to most countries and regions in the world. By understanding the development trend of a regional epidemic, the epidemic can be controlled using the development policy. The common traditional mathematical differential equations and population prediction models have limitations for time series population prediction, and even have large estimation errors. To address this issue, we propose an improved method for predicting confirmed cases based on LSTM (Long-Short Term Memory) neural network. This work compared the deviation between the experimental results of the improved LSTM prediction model and the digital prediction models (such as Logistic and Hill equations) with the real data as reference. And this work uses the goodness of fitting to evaluate the fitting effect of the improvement. Experiments show that the proposed approach has a smaller prediction deviation and a better fitting effect. Compared with the previous forecasting methods, the contributions of our proposed improvement methods are mainly in the following aspects: 1) we have fully considered the spatiotemporal characteristics of the data, rather than single standardized data; 2) the improved parameter settings and evaluation indicators are more accurate for fitting and forecasting. 3) we consider the impact of the epidemic stage and conduct reasonable data processing for different stage.
[12] 新冠肺炎疫情传播建模分析与预测
盛华雄, 吴琳, 肖长亮 - 系统仿真学报 - 2020
对武汉封城前后的新冠肺炎疫情传播进行建模分析.在对疫情数据预处理的基础上,在控制阶段运用经典的SIR模型和差分递推方法分析和预测疫情,理论值和实测值吻合较好.在自由传播阶段运用Logistic模型,比较分析提前五天或延后五天的疫情数据与实测数据,说明及时采取防疫措施的重要性.模型对相关地区的疾病传播分析具有普遍适用性.
[13] 基于人工社会的疫情传播风险预测和防控措施评估
陈彬, 杨妹, 艾川, 马亮, ...朱正秋 - 系统仿真学报 - 2020
新型冠状病毒疫情在全国一盘棋的严格防控措施下已经得到了控制,但是如何对其进行常态化的治理值得深入研究.分别基于SEIR模型和人工社会情景建立了新型冠状病毒疫情传播模型和人员接触网络模型;在天河超级计算机上运用多Agent计算实验方法进行大样本计算实验,模拟人工城市中社区,学校和工作场所等典型区域疫情传播,预测和评估复工复学后疫情传播风险.实验结果表明疫情防控要做好打持久战的准备,将应急措施作用到疫情发生相变之前.
[14] 基于SEIR的新型肺炎传播模型及拐点预测分析
范如国, 王奕博, 罗明, 张应青, ...朱超平 - 电子科技大学学报 - 2020
2019新型冠状病毒疫情对全国造成了严重影响,社会经济生活受到了极大干扰。该文基于复杂网络理论建立了带有潜伏期的2019-nCoV流行病SEIR动力学模型,通过设定了3种病毒不同潜伏期情景,依据国家及部分地区疫情数据,针对不同情景对模型参数进行仿真分析,对3种情形下的疫情拐点进行了预测,结果表明,模型分析与疫情发展的真实表现基本吻合。最后提出了加强疫情防控的对策建议,对精准做好疫情防控具有较好的指导价值。
[15] Estimation of the Transmission Risk of the 2019-nCoV and Its Implication for Public Health Interventions
Biao Tang, Xia Wang, Qian Li, Nicola Luigi Bragazzi, ...Sanyi Tang - Journal of Clinical Medicine - 2020
Since the emergence of the first cases in Wuhan, China, the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection has been quickly spreading out to other provinces and neighboring countries. Estimation of the basic reproduction number by means of mathematical modeling can be helpful for determining the potential and severity of an outbreak and providing critical information for identifying the type of disease interventions and intensity. A deterministic compartmental model was devised based on the clinical progression of the disease, epidemiological status of the individuals, and intervention measures. The estimations based on likelihood and model analysis show that the control reproduction number may be as high as 6.47 (95% CI 5.71–7.23). Sensitivity analyses show that interventions, such as intensive contact tracing followed by quarantine and isolation, can effectively reduce the control reproduction number and transmission risk, with the effect of travel restriction adopted by Wuhan on 2019-nCoV infection in Beijing being almost equivalent to increasing quarantine by a 100 thousand baseline value. It is essential to assess how the expensive, resource-intensive measures implemented by the Chinese authorities can contribute to the prevention and control of the 2019-nCoV infection, and how long they should be maintained. Under the most restrictive measures, the outbreak is expected to peak within two weeks (since 23 January 2020) with a significant low peak value. With travel restriction (no imported exposed individuals to Beijing), the number of infected individuals in seven days will decrease by 91.14% in Beijing, compared with the scenario of no travel restriction.
[16] Mathematical and computational approaches to epidemic modeling: a comprehensive review
Wei DUAN, Zongchen FAN, Peng ZHANG, Gang GUO, ...Xiaogang QIU - Frontiers of Computer Science Selected Publications from Chinese Universities - 2015 - 被引量:7
摘　要：
[17] A contribution to the mathematical theory of epidemics
W O Kermack, A G McKendrick - Bulletin of Mathematical Biology - 1991 - 被引量:6651
The object of a mathematical theory, or interpretation, of a biological experiment is to express the observed results as concisely as possible using the simplest hypothesis capable of providing a satisfactory reproduction of the data. One desires to do this because the mathematical expression will permit of inferences which may, in some cases, be tested by further planned experiment; in others,...
