[1] Network-based prediction of COVID-19 epidemic spreading in Italy
Clara Pizzuti, Annalisa Socievole, Bastian Prasse, Piet Van Mieghem, ... - Applied Network Science - 2020
Initially emerged in the Chinese city Wuhan and subsequently spread almost worldwide causing a pandemic, the SARS-CoV-2 virus follows reasonably well the Susceptible–Infectious–Recovered (SIR) epidemic model on contact networks in the Chinese case. In this paper, we investigate the prediction accuracy of the SIR model on networks also for Italy. Specifically, the Italian regions are a metapopulation represented by network nodes and the network links are the interactions between those regions. Then, we modify the network-based SIR model in order to take into account the different lockdown measures adopted by the Italian Government in the various phases of the spreading of the COVID-19. Our results indicate that the network-based model better predicts the daily cumulative infected individuals when time-varying lockdown protocols are incorporated in the classical SIR model.
[2] 几类复杂网络上的疾病传播SEIS和SEIR模型研究
赵璇 - 湘潭大学
在潜伏期患者不具备传染能力的条件下,本文分析了两类疾病传播模型:易感者-潜伏者-染病者-易感者(SEIS)模型和易感者-潜伏者-染病者-恢复者(SEIR)模型.我们发现这两类疾病传播模型在均匀网络和无标度网络上的传播阈值与转移概率无关,但达到平衡时感染者的密度随着转移概率的增大而增大.同时,我们发现在动态小世界网络上,对SEIS模型而言,疾病传播的阈值条件是β>γ/1+γ;对SEIR模型而言,疾病传播的阈值条件为p>(1-β)γ/β.
[3] 复杂网络上潜伏期有传染性的SEIS和SEIR疾病模型研究
杨慧 - 湘潭大学
本文的研究对象是复杂网络上的SEIS模型和SEIR模型,重点关注这两个疾病模型在均匀网络和无标度网络上的传播情况.近些年,关于复杂网络上传染病的传播引发越来越多学者的密切关注,在SEIS模型和SEIR模型的研究中,关于潜伏期具有传染性的研究却很少涉及.在本文中,基于潜伏期患者具有传染能力的条件下分析了 SEIS模型和SEIR模型,其中S表示易感者,E表示潜伏者,I表示染病者,R表示恢复者.本文主要从两类疾病模型的基本再生数进行研究,经过计算我们得到SEIS模型和SEIR模型在均匀网络和无标度网络上的基本再生数相等,且与潜伏期的感染概率有关,在均匀网上的基本再生数为R0=β1k/γ+β2k/α,在无标度网络上的基本再生数为R0=(k2/k)(β1+β2γ/α))/γ.
[4] A dynamical model of SARS-CoV-2 based on people flow network
Victoria López, Milena B. uki - Safety Science - 2020
The pandemic of SARS-CoV-2 made many countries impose restrictions in order to control its dangerous effect on the citizens. These restrictions classify the population into the states of a flow network where people are coming and going according to pandemic evolution. A new dynamical model based on flow networks is proposed. The model fits well with the well-known SIR family model and add a new perspective of the evolution of the infected people among the states. This perspective allows to model different scenarios and illustrates the evolution and trends of the pandemic because it is based on the open data daily provided by the governments. To measure the severity of the pandemic along the time, a danger index (DI) is proposed in addition to the well-known R0 index. This index is a function of infected cases, number of deaths and recover cases while the transmission index R0 depends only on the infected cases. These two indexes are compared in relation to data from Spain and the Netherlands and additionally, it is shown the relation of the danger index with the policy applied by the governments.
[5] A social network model of COVID-19
Alexander K. Karaivanov - PLoS ONE - 2020
I construct a dynamic social-network model of the COVID-19 epidemic which embeds the SIR epidemiological model onto a graph of person-to-person interactions. The standard SIR framework assumes uniform mixing of infectious persons in the population. This abstracts from important elements of realism and locality: (i) people are more likely to interact with members of their social networks and (ii) health and economic policies can affect differentially the rate of viral transmission via a person's social network vs. the population as a whole. The proposed network-augmented (NSIR) model allows the evaluation, via simulations, of (i) health and economic policies and outcomes for all or subset of the population: lockdown/distancing, herd immunity, testing, contact tracing; (ii) behavioral responses and/or imposing or lifting policies at specific times or conditional on observed states. I find that viral transmission over a network-connected population can proceed slower and reach lower peak than transmission via uniform mixing. Network connections introduce uncertainty and path dependence in the epidemic dynamics, with a significant role for bridge links and superspreaders. Testing and contact tracing are more effective in the network model. If lifted early, distancing policies mostly shift the infection peak into the future, with associated economic costs. Delayed or intermittent interventions or endogenous behavioral responses generate a multi-peaked infection curve, a form of 'curve flattening', but may have costlier economic consequences by prolonging the epidemic duration.
[6] Scaling effect in COVID-19 spreading: The role of heterogeneity in a hybrid ODE-network model with restrictions on the inter-cities flow
José Garcia Vivas Miranda a, Mateus Souza Silva a, José Gabriel Bertolino a, Rodrigo Nogueira Vasconcelos b, ...Elaine Cristina Barbosa Cambui a - Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena
The new Covid-19 pandemic has left traces of suffering and devastation to individuals of almost all countries worldwide and severe impact on the global economy. Understanding the clinical characteristics, interactions with the environment, and the variables that favor or hinder its dissemination help the public authorities in the fight and prevention, leading for a rapid response in society. Using models to estimate contamination scenarios in real time plays an important role. Population compartments models based on ordinary differential equations (ODE) for a given region assume two homogeneous premises, the contact mechanisms and diffusion rates, disregarding heterogeneous factors as different contact rates for each municipality and the flow of contaminated people among them. This work considers a hybrid model for covid-19, based on local SIR models and the population flow network among municipalities, responsible for a complex lag dynamic in their contagion curves. Based on actual infection data, local contact rates ( β ) are evaluated. The epidemic evolution at each municipality depends on the local SIR parameters and on the inter-municipality transport flow. When heterogeneity of β values and flow network are included, forecasts differ from those of the homogeneous ODE model. This effect is more relevant when more municipalities are considered, hinting that the latter overestimates new cases. In addition, mitigation scenarios are assessed to evaluate the effect of earlier interventions reducing the inter-municipality flux. Restricting the flow between municipalities in the initial stage of the epidemic is fundamental for flattening the contamination curve, highlighting advantages of a contamination lag between the capital curve and those of other municipalities in the territories.
[7] Global transmission network of SARS-CoV-2: from outbreak to pandemic
Pavel Skums, Alexander Kirpich, Pelin Icer Baykal, Alex Zelikovsky, ...Gerardo Chowell - medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences
Background: The COVID-19 pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is straining health systems around the world. Although the Chinese government implemented a number of severe restrictions on people's movement in an attempt to contain its local and international spread, the virus had already reached many areas of the world in part due to its potent transmissibility and the fact that a substantial fraction of infected individuals develop little or no symptoms at all. Following its emergence, the virus started to generate sustained transmission in neighboring countries in Asia, Western Europe, Australia, Canada and the United States, and finally in South America and Africa. As the virus continues its global spread, a clear and evidence-based understanding of properties and dynamics of the global transmission network of SARS-CoV-2 is essential to design and put in place efficient and globally coordinated interventions. Methods: We employ molecular surveillance data of SARS-CoV-2 epidemics for inference and comprehensive analysis of its global transmission network before the pandemic declaration. Our goal was to characterize the spatial-temporal transmission pathways that led to the establishment of the pandemic. We exploited a network-based approach specifically tailored to emerging outbreak settings. Specifically, it traces the accumulation of mutations in viral genomic variants via mutation trees, which are then used to infer transmission networks, revealing an up-to-date picture of the spread of SARS-CoV-2 between and within countries and geographic regions. Results and Conclusions: The analysis suggest multiple introductions of SARS-CoV-2 into the majority of world regions by means of heterogeneous transmission pathways. The transmission network is scale-free, with a few genomic variants responsible for the majority of possible transmissions. The network structure is in line with the available temporal information represented by sample collection times and suggest the expected sampling time difference of few days between potential transmission pairs. The inferred network structural properties, transmission clusters and pathways and virus introduction routes emphasize the extent of the global epidemiological linkage and demonstrate the importance of internationally coordinated public health measures.
[8] Temporal Network Epidemiology
Naoki Masuda, Petter Holme - 2017 - 被引量:16
This book covers recent developments in epidemic process models and related data on temporally varying networks. It is widely recognized that contact networks are indispensable for describing, understanding, and intervening to stop the spread of infectious diseases in human and animal populations; "network epidemiology" is an umbrella term to describe this research field. More recently, contact networks have been recognized as being highly dynamic. This observation, also supported by an increasing amount of new data, has led to research on temporal networks, a rapidly growing area. Changes in network structure are often informed by epidemic (or other) dynamics, in which case they are referred to as adaptive networks. This volume gathers contributions by prominent authors working in temporal and adaptive network epidemiology, a field essential to understanding infectious diseases in real society.
[9] Contact network models matching the dynamics of the COVID-19 spreading
Matú Medo - IOP Publishing - 2021
We study the epidemic spreading on spatial networks where the probability that two nodes are connected decays with their distance as a power law. As the exponent of the distance dependence grows, model networks smoothly transition from the random network limit to the regular lattice limit. We show that despite keeping the average number of contacts constant, the increasing exponent hampers the epidemic spreading by making long-distance connections less frequent. The spreading dynamics is influenced by the distance-dependence exponent as well and changes from exponential growth to power-law growth. The observed power-law growth is compatible with recent analyses of empirical data on the spreading of COVID-19 in numerous countries.  2020 IOP Publishing Ltd
[10] Modeling the impact of social distancing, testing, contact tracing and household quarantine on second-wave scenarios of the COVID-19 epidemic
Alberto Aleta, David Martin-Corral, Ana Pastore y Piontti, Marco Ajelli, ...Yamir Moreno - medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences
The new coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has required the implementation of severe mobility restrictions and social distancing measures worldwide. While these measures have been proven effective in abating the epidemic in several countries, it is important to estimate the effectiveness of testing and tracing strategies to avoid a potential second wave of the COVID-19 epidemic. We integrate highly detailed (anonymized, privacy-enhanced) mobility data from mobile devices, with census and demographic data to build a detailed agent-based model to describe the transmission dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 in the Boston metropolitan area. We find that enforcing strict social distancing followed by a policy based on a robust level of testing, contact-tracing and household quarantine, could keep the disease at a level that does not exceed the capacity of the health care system. Assuming the identification of 50% of the symptomatic infections, and the tracing of 40% of their contacts and households, which corresponds to about 9% of individuals quarantined, the ensuing reduction in transmission allows the reopening of economic activities while attaining a manageable impact on the health care system. Our results show that a response system based on enhanced testing and contact tracing can play a major role in relaxing social distancing interventions in the absence of herd immunity against SARS-CoV-2.
[11] Social network-based distancing strategies to flatten the COVID 19 curve in a post-lockdown world
Block, Per, Hoffman, Marion, Raabe, Isabel J., Dowd, Jennifer Beam, ...Rahal, Charles - Nature Human Behaviour
Social distancing and isolation have been introduced widely to counter the COVID-19 pandemic. However, more moderate contact reduction policies become desirable owing to adverse social, psychological, and economic consequences of a complete or near-complete lockdown. Adopting a social network approach, we evaluate the effectiveness of three targeted distancing strategies designed to 'keep the curve flat' and aid compliance in a post-lockdown world. These are limiting interaction to a few repeated contacts, seeking similarity across contacts, and strengthening communities via triadic strategies. We simulate stochastic infection curves that incorporate core elements from infection models, ideal-type social network models, and statistical relational event models. We demonstrate that strategic reduction of contact can strongly increase the efficiency of social distancing measures, introducing the possibility of allowing some social contact while keeping risks low. This approach provides nuanced insights to policy makers for effective social distancing that can mitigate negative consequences of social isolation.
[12] The effectiveness of backward contact tracing in networks
Sadamori Kojaku, Laurent Hébert-Dufresne, Enys Mones, Sune Lehmann, ...Yong-Yeol Ahn - Nature Physics - 2021
Effective control of an epidemic relies on the rapid discovery and isolation of infected individuals. Because many infectious diseases spread through interaction, contact tracing is widely used to facilitate case discovery and control. However, what determines the efficacy of contact tracing has not been fully understood. Here we reveal that, compared with 'forward' tracing (tracing to whom disease spreads), 'backward' tracing (tracing from whom disease spreads) is profoundly more effective. The effectiveness of backward tracing is due to simple but overlooked biases arising from the heterogeneity in contacts. We argue that, even if the directionality of infection is unknown, it is possible to perform backward-aiming contact tracing. Using simulations on both synthetic and high-resolution empirical contact datasets, we show that strategically executed contact tracing can prevent a substantial fraction of transmissions with a higher efficiency—in terms of prevented cases per isolation—than case isolation alone. Our results call for a revision of current contact-tracing strategies so that they leverage all forms of bias. It is particularly crucial that we incorporate backward and deep tracing in a digital context while adhering to the privacy-preserving requirements of these new platforms.
[13] Mobility network models of COVID-19 explain inequities and inform reopening
Serina Chang, Emma Pierson, Pang Wei Koh, Jaline Gerardin, ...Jure Leskovec - Nature - 2020
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic markedly changed human mobility patterns, necessitating epidemiological models that can capture the effects of these changes in mobility on the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Here we introduce a metapopulation susceptible–exposed–infectious–removed (SEIR) model that integrates fine-grained, dynamic mobility networks to simulate the spread of SARS-CoV-2 in ten of the largest US metropolitan areas. Our mobility networks are derived from mobile phone data and map the hourly movements of 98 million people from neighbourhoods (or census block groups) to points of interest such as restaurants and religious establishments, connecting 56,945 census block groups to 552,758 points of interest with 5.4 billion hourly edges. We show that by integrating these networks, a relatively simple SEIR model can accurately fit the real case trajectory, despite substantial changes in the behaviour of the population over time. Our model predicts that a small minority of 'superspreader' points of interest account for a large majority of the infections, and that restricting the maximum occupancy at each point of interest is more effective than uniformly reducing mobility. Our model also correctly predicts higher infection rates among disadvantaged racial and socioeconomic groups2–8 solely as the result of differences in mobility: we find that disadvantaged groups have not been able to reduce their mobility as sharply, and that the points of interest that they visit are more crowded and are therefore associated with higher risk. By capturing who is infected at which locations, our model supports detailed analyses that can inform more-effective and equitable policy responses to COVID-19.
[14] Effectiveness of isolation, testing, contact tracing, and physical distancing on reducing transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in different settings: a mathematical modelling study
Adam J Kucharski, Petra Klepac, Andrew J K Conlan, Stephen M Kissler, ...David Simons - The Lancet Infectious Diseases - 2020
BACKGROUND: The isolation of symptomatic cases and tracing of contacts has been used as an early COVID-19 containment measure in many countries, with additional physical distancing measures also introduced as outbreaks have grown. To maintain control of infection while also reducing disruption to populations, there is a need to understand what combination of measures-including novel digital tracing approaches and less intensive physical distancing-might be required to reduce transmission. We aimed to estimate the reduction in transmission under different control measures across settings and how many contacts would be quarantined per day in different strategies for a given level of symptomatic case incidence. METHODS: For this mathematical modelling study, we used a model of individual-level transmission stratified by setting (household, work, school, or other) based on BBC Pandemic data from 40 162 UK participants. We simulated the effect of a range of different testing, isolation, tracing, and physical distancing scenarios. Under optimistic but plausible assumptions, we estimated reduction in the effective reproduction number and the number of contacts that would be newly quarantined each day under different strategies. RESULTS: We estimated that combined isolation and tracing strategies would reduce transmission more than mass testing or self-isolation alone: mean transmission reduction of 2% for mass random testing of 5% of the population each week, 29% for self-isolation alone of symptomatic cases within the household, 35% for self-isolation alone outside the household, 37% for self-isolation plus household quarantine, 64% for self-isolation and household quarantine with the addition of manual contact tracing of all contacts, 57% with the addition of manual tracing of acquaintances only, and 47% with the addition of app-based tracing only. If limits were placed on gatherings outside of home, school, or work, then manual contact tracing of acquaintances alone could have an effect on transmission reduction similar to that of detailed contact tracing. In a scenario where 1000 new symptomatic cases that met the definition to trigger contact tracing occurred per day, we estimated that, in most contact tracing strategies, 15 000-41 000 contacts would be newly quarantined each day. INTERPRETATION: Consistent with previous modelling studies and country-specific COVID-19 responses to date, our analysis estimated that a high proportion of cases would need to self-isolate and a high proportion of their contacts to be successfully traced to ensure an effective reproduction number lower than 1 in the absence of other measures. If combined with moderate physical distancing measures, self-isolation and contact tracing would be more likely to achieve control of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 transmission. FUNDING: Wellcome Trust, UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, European Commission, Royal Society, Medical Research Council.
[15] The Timing of COVID-19 Transmission
Luca Ferretti, Alice Ledda, Chris Wymant, Lele Zhao, ...Virginia Ledda - Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press - 2020
The timing of SARS-CoV-2 transmission is a critical factor to understand the epidemic trajectory and the impact of isolation, contact tracing and other non- pharmaceutical interventions on the spread of COVID-19 epidemics. We examined the distribution of transmission events with respect to exposure and onset of symptoms. We show that for symptomatic individuals, the timing of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is more strongly linked to the onset of clinical symptoms of COVID-19 than to the time since infection. We found that it was approximately centered and symmetric around the onset of symptoms, with three quarters of events occurring in the window from 2-3 days before to 2-3 days after. However, we caution against overinterpretation of the right tail of the distribution, due to its dependence on behavioural factors and interventions. We also found that the pre-symptomatic infectious period extended further back in time for individuals with longer incubation periods. This strongly suggests that information about when a case was infected should be collected where possible, in order to assess how far into the past their contacts should be traced. Overall, the fraction of transmission from strictly pre-symptomatic infections was high (41%; 95%CI 31-50%), which limits the efficacy of symptom-based interventions, and the large fraction of transmissions (35%; 95%CI 26-45%) that occur on the same day or the day after onset of symptoms underlines the critical importance of individuals distancing themselves from others as soon as they notice any symptoms, even if they are mild. Rapid or at-home testing and contextual risk information would greatly facilitate efficient early isolation.
[16] COVID-19 epidemic in Switzerland: on the importance of testing, contact tracing and isolation
Marcel Salath, Christian L. Althaus, Richard Neher, Silvia Stringhini, ...Nicola Low - Schweizerische medizinische Wochenschrift - 2020
Switzerland is among the countries with the highest number of coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) cases per capita in the world. There are likely many people with undetected SARS-CoV-2 infection because testing efforts are currently not detecting all infected people, including some with clinical disease compatible with COVID-19. Testing on its own will not stop the spread of SARS-CoV-2. Testing is part of a strategy. The World Health Organization recommends a combination of measures: rapid diagnosis and immediate isolation of cases, rigorous tracking and precautionary self-isolation of close contacts. In this article, we explain why the testing strategy in Switzerland should be strengthened urgently, as a core component of a combination approach to control COVID-19.
[17] Comparing nonpharmaceutical interventions for containing emerging epidemics
Corey M. Peak, Lauren M. Childs, Yonatan H. Grad, Caroline O. Buckee, ... - Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America - 2017 - 被引量:6
Strategies for containing an emerging infectious disease outbreak must be nonpharmaceutical when drugs or vaccines for the pathogen do not yet exist or are unavailable. The success of these nonpharmaceutical strategies will depend on not only the effectiveness of isolation measures but also the epidemiological characteristics of the infection. However, there is currently no systematic framework to assess the relationship between different containment strategies and the natural history and epidemiological dynamics of the pathogen. Here, we compare the effectiveness of quarantine and symptom monitoring, implemented via contact tracing, in controlling epidemics using an agent-based branching model. We examine the relationship between epidemic containment and the disease dynamics of symptoms and infectiousness for seven case-study diseases with diverse natural histories, including Ebola, influenza A, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). We show that the comparative effectiveness of symptom monitoring and quarantine depends critically on the natural history of the infectious disease, its inherent transmissibility, and the intervention feasibility in the particular healthcare setting. The benefit of quarantine over symptom monitoring is generally maximized for fast-course diseases, but we show the conditions under which symptom monitoring alone can control certain outbreaks. This quantitative framework can guide policymakers on how best to use nonpharmaceutical interventions and prioritize research during an outbreak of an emerging pathogen.
[18] Effective containment explains subexponential growth in recent confirmed COVID-19 cases in China
Benjamin F,Maier, Dirk,Brockmann - Science (New York, N.Y.) - 2020
The recent outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in mainland China was characterized by a distinctive subexponential increase of confirmed cases during the early phase of the epidemic, contrasting with an initial exponential growth expected for an unconstrained outbreak. We show that this effect can be explained as a direct consequence of containment policies that effectively deplete the susceptible population. To this end, we introduce a parsimonious model that captures both quarantine of symptomatic infected individuals, as well as population-wide isolation practices in response to containment policies or behavioral changes, and show that the model captures the observed growth behavior accurately. The insights provided here may aid the careful implementation of containment strategies for ongoing secondary outbreaks of COVID-19 or similar future outbreaks of other emergent infectious diseases.
